well Majed alans is the spokesperson for
qatar's Ministry of Foreign Affairs he
told Al jazer that Qatar hopes to see
the ceasefire extended
further as the provision in the original
agreement suggests 10 uh hostages will
be released every day and that would
translate into an extra day of pass so
we have from Hamas confirmation now that
20 extra hostages will be released in
the next two days and on the Palestinian
side that would mean that uh from
Israeli jails you'll have threefold of
that number so 60 Palestinians will be
released from Israeli prisons and the
same parameters of the agreement that
applied and these four days will
continue when it comes to humanitarian
Aid and the PA in uh in the fighting it
is a very hopeful moment for us that we
can build on that momentum to increase
the number of hostages being released
but also to uh prepare the ground for
more sustainable truth through the
negotiations that are taking place as we
have seen we began this mediation
process here in uh in Doha right after
the 7th of of October and we have made a
lot of accomplishments starting from
then we've moved from a point where
there was absolutely no chance for
mediation where there is there was a
refusal for mediation to both parties
now every day agreeing on the list and
having hostages being released daily and
we have reached a stop of fighting that
is going to extend into uh almost a week
uh now and I think we have to build on
uh on that to make sure that we
move forward obviously we are working
with what we have the conditions of the
negotiations are not uh positive
conditions although the commitments we
have received over this agreement are
very are very positive and the
implementation as we have seen although
very difficult and at times it was a bit
delicate but we were able to uh Mo
through the agreement the four days and
extend it now for these two days the
team working here from Doha in the
operations room has been working day and
night
nonstop relentlessly to make sure that
we have this momentum and we build upon
it and I'm quite sure that the team will
have more work to do now as we H go on
to these two extra days well Iman Khan
joins us live now from occupied East
Jerusalem Imran so what more can you
tell us then about this latest Israeli
captive release and of course this
possible extension to the
ceasefire well the captive release
eventually went very smoothly that may
well have encouraged the Israelis uh to
uh accept the fact that there is an
extension to the ceasefire officially
but there's been no official
announcement the closest we've actually
got is a statement from the government
press office it says the government has
approved the inclusion of 50 female
prisoners in the list of prisoners
elegible to be released in the event
that a release of additional Israeli
hostages is carried out that's the
closest we've got to an official
confirmation of this 2day uh ceasefire
also we've heard that a list of 10 names
have been given by Hamas to the Israeli
prison Authority uh those 10 names will
be Israeli captives that will be
released in the coming hours that's not
been officially confirmed but it has
been reported by Israeli Army radio so
those are the two things that are giving
people hope that the ceasefire is
actually going to hold for the next two
days the Israeli government has actually
been clear they've said as long as U
captives are being release then the
ceasefire can be extended under the same
conditions as it has been for the last 4
days now uh normally we see prisoners
being released around about 4:00 local
time so that's a crucial time we'll see
if things happen around uh then but
certainly it looks like everything is in
place for more prisoner releases today
more captive releases today um Imran and
so this extension is only for two days
so what more has the Israeli military
been saying uh about their ground
offensive once the ceasefire extension
is
over well it's a very interesting thing
you just heard from Majid alansari there
who's hopeful that the ceasefire can be
extended we also have been hearing from
senior Hamas leaders who are hoping that
ceasefire can become a more permanent
truce that is not the language that you
are hearing from Israel Israel says that
it will continue the war on Gaza um as
soon soon as they decide that they want
to as soon as they decide that Hamas
aren't releasing any more pleases they
have a stated aim of going in and
destroying Hamas both politically and
militarily but there's now talk of going
into the South the south of the Gaza
Strip was supposed to be an effective
safe zone for Palestinians the Israelis
uh through various media Outlets through
various trusted uh reporters that they
have are briefing that Hamas now have an
operation and controlling Command Center
in the south of Gaza and that'll be the
next Target obviously that's incredibly
alarming for the International Community
particularly because as I say The South
was supposed to be this safe zone now
there isn't really anywhere that's
completely safe for Palestinians in Gaza
The South was supposed to be safe and
now the Israelis are briefing that that
could well be next all right Imran Khan
live for us there from occupi East
Jerusalem Imran thank you